# Quantum Brain

_The basic idea is as follows, a photonic neuromorphic quantum computer. This will describe the concepts before providing a lot more nitty-gritty details.
Herein describes the complex photonic neuromorphic quantum computational architecture, I have codenamed **BrainQ.** It uses quaternary logic rather than binary logic and has components of analog, digital, and quantum computing to mimic the brain._

---

# The Concept

If you are familiar with neuromorphic computing, skip this paragraph; otherwise, continue reading. Neuromorphic computing describes a kind of computational architecture based on or inspired by the brain. Many neuromorphic architectures use analog computing with memristors. Memristors are a basic circuit component that remembers the current that just passed through it and will have a variable resistance based on said current. It “remembers” the current, so it “remembers” what resistance value it will have, hence memristor. One aspect of neuromorphic computing that differentiates it from classical von Neumann computational architectures is that it does not operate on a clock. Components are only powered when they are being used, otherwise, they are off. This leads neuromorphic computing to be incredibly energy efficient when it comes to computing, and neuromorphic architectures are especially 

If you are familiar with photonic computing, skip this paragraph; otherwise, continue reading. Photonic computing uses light particles (photons) rather than electrons to perform operations. Photonics is involved in fiber optic communications in data centers, telecommunications, the internet, and WiFi. Recently, Nvidia announced a photonic AI chip for data centers. Months ago, back in 2024, I predicted that photonics would be the next move for AI, because it would mean less power consumption, less heat, and higher speeds. I digress. Photonic computing is not new, however, the field itself is still relatively nascent.

A system of photonic qubits, each with n photonic memristors attached. Those memristors connect to other qubits, leading to step-based logic and interconnectedness, the same way that neurons have synapses connecting them to other neurons. The important part is that the signal from the memristors is analog and therefore noisy and unrefined, so it will need to be transformed into a digital signal to be refined by digital logic and then sent to the qubit. My intention is for the logic of the system to be based on what is seen in nature's form of data storage, that being quaternary or base 4 (4 base) encoding seen as ATCG in DNA and AUCG in RNA. In this system, it would be 0,1,2,3. Quaternary-based logic is not a new concept, however, it is not utilized often. It is relatively simple to convert between binary and base 4; using two bits for one quaternary "quadit" (quadit being a classical bit that is not binary and is instead quaternary). However, that is for the sake of making this something safe, for the sake of national security, avoiding misuse, minimizing replicability, etc. Neither space nor energy would be minimized in the case of using two bits rather than one "quadit". Now, the process of making a "quadit" would be difficult, but possible. It would necessitate having 4 distinct voltage states, or 2 voltage states and 2 other states.

The photonic neuromorphic quantum computer uses algorithms based on human brain patterns, using a combination of electroencephalograms (EEGs) to monitor real people doing calculations/tasks, and then making algorithms based on their brain wave patterns, using wavefront signal propagation to mimic the brain wave patterns. Conceptually, I think that designing an algorithm by copying a naturally occurring (human) brain pattern will allow for algorithms that are more "human" in nature, and I hope that this will make the algorithms more powerful long-term.

Data encoding in the brain is based on patterns and synapse weightings, and every individual's pattern-based encoding of that information is not the same. As such, patterns for encoding the information via synapse weightings will come from something less conventional, filters for signals. Using advanced materials, such as metamaterials, photonic waveguides, and polarizers (waveplates or otherwise). Using photonic memristors, a signal filtered from one activation point will have a color, or wavelength which can be filtered by each of the metamaterial's that are inside of the waveguides, which would allow for the filtering of information by category, or type, then additional information could be filtered via combinations of polarizers where, for example, a horizontally polarized light beam is filtered out by the vertical polarizer and vice versa. I do not have a deep understanding of photonics, however, I have done a fair bit of research into it, and I understand waveguides and fiber optics enough to know that a filter would be able to filter out certain signals. Using a combination of photonic memristors, light polarization, metamaterials, polarizer filters, different colors of light, and additional properties of light (I may be missing a few) that can be filtered to make synapses or rather photonic memristors that are aware of the kind of information they are receiving and whether it is relevant to them, the same way that based on intensity, neurons will fire.

Another aspect of neuromorphic computing is that the computation and the memory are in the same location, which is the intention for this system as well. Information would be encoded in a quaternary storage and via a combination of transistors and memristors, as has been demonstrated in non-photonic neuromorphic computing, the memory and processing can exist in the same location.

So photonic qubits each have some number “n” of memristors associated with them, for weighting based on a relatively continuous scale (like synapses) and then digital processing, like transistors are used to actually communicate that information. We can use wavefront signal propagation to have the information go across the system in nanoseconds.

---

# What the concept describes

